---
layout: post
title:  "This is Jade"
date:   2016-10-07 11:24:45 -0400
categories: blog
image: /resources/jade.jpg
---

So... I learned about something really cool. I know it might be old, but I just
discovered it, so bare with me. - It's called Jade. I don't know exactly how to
explain it, but basically, you type Jade, run it through a compiler, and the
compiler spits out HTML.

Why would anyone want this? Well, it basically gets rid of all of the stupid
"<>"'s and all of the closing tags in HTML. It may not seem like a lot when you're
just messing around with it, but it can save a significant amount of time when
you're writing thousands of lines of code for a complex website.

Not only does it save you time, but it's awesome for collaboration since it's so
pretty and easy to read. Here's an example.

So.. You type Jade which looks like this:

{% highlight ruby %}
doctype html
html(lang='en')
  head
    title Jade
    script(type='text/javascript').
      foo = true;
      bar = function () {};
      if (foo) {
      bar(1 + 5)
      }
  body
    h1 Jade - node template engine
    #container.col
      p You are amazing
      p
        | Jade is a terse and simple
        | templating language with a
        | strong focus on performance
        | and powerful features.
{% endhighlight %}

Pretty, right? So that's Jade. Then you run it through a compiler and it spits out
HTML code like this:

{% highlight ruby %}
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <title>Jade</title>
    <script type="text/javascript">
      foo = true;
      bar = function () {};
      if (foo) {
        bar(1 + 5)
      }
    </script>
  </head>
  <body>
    <h1>Jade - node template engine</h1>
    <div id="container" class="col">
      <p>You are amazing</p>
      <p>Jade is a terse and simple
         templating language with a
         strong focus on performance
         and powerful features.</p>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
{% endhighlight %}

Ew... Ugly...

So that's jade. I think it's pretty awesome. If you want to get started with Jade,
you can check out <a href="http://learnjade.com/">http://learnjade.com/</a> which
is a pretty good site to learn some Jade quickly. YouTube is also always a great
resource for learning a new language.

Thanks for Reading!
-John
